# Roadmap 2022

## Native APIs

- Screen details API **(Done)**.
- Get window title via `window.getTitle` **(Done)**.
- Get window size via `window.getSize`. Output the same structure returned with `window.setSize` **(Done)**.
- Set on top mode during the runtime via `window.setAlwaysOnTop(bool)` **(Done)**.
- Get window position via `window.getPosition`. **(Done)**
- Clipboard API **(Done)**
- `os.spawnProcess` for realtime process input and output. **(Done)**
- `filesystem.appendFile` and `filesystem.appendBinaryFile`. **(Done)**
- `filesystem.createWatcher` and `filesystem.removeWatcher` for realtime file events **(Done)**.
- `computer.getArch` to get the user computer's processor architecture. **(Done)**
- `computer.getKernelInfo` to get the user computer's OS kernel details. **(Done)**
- `computer.getOSInfo` to get the user computer's OS details. **(Done)**
- `computer.getCPUInfo` to get the user computer's CPU details. **(Done)**
- `computer.getDisplays` to get the user computer's available displays. **(Done)**
- `os.getEnvs` to get all environment variable details. **(Done)**
- `storage.getKeys` to get all storage keys as a JavaScript array object **(Done)**

## Adding custom APIs (Done)

Neutralinojs offers the extensions API to write custom backend code with any programming language, but extensions come with the following drawbacks that affect apps in several scenarios:

- Extensions use a shared WebSocket for communication, so using direct C++ references (i.e., the window handler) is impossible within extensions.
- The developer is responsible for packaging their extension binaries.
- A C++-based extension is not fast as native C++-based code due to the WebSockets-based IPC.

Alternatively, a developer can download the framework C++ code, modify it, and re-compile it. But, the developer may face issues while synching upstream code modifications. So, Neutralinojs offers a separate namespace, a function template, inbuilt helper functions (i.e., to get the window handler), and a developer guide to add custom APIs to the Neutralinojs framework without updating the framework core.

Example:

```js
let res = await Neutralino.custom.fetch('https://neutralino.js.org');
```

If developers make a custom API that others can use, we motivate them to contribute to the Neutralinojs framework by adding it to the main codebase.

Example:

```js
let res = await Neutralino.net.fetch('https://neutralino.js.org');
```
## File streams (Done)

The current Neutralinojs API offers non-stream-based (Promise-based but synchronous-like) functions for working with files. For example, the `filesystem.readFile` function reads the file content and retrieves data synchronously even though the WebSocket communication mechanism supports asynchronous patterns. However, the synchronous API lets developers work with files in a simple way, but they face the following issues in some scenarios:

- Reading large files is not performance-friendly (The whole file content gets loaded into the memory).
- Unable to work with dynamic file objects (i.e., Device files).
- File descriptors are not persistent within the app lifecycle as they get destroyed after native API calls.

To solve this issue, we offer an event-based file stream API with the following functions/events:

### Functions

- `filesystem.openFile`: Creates a file stream by openning a file.
- `filesystem.updateOpenedFile`: Triggers a file `read`/`readAll` event or sets the file cursor.
- `filesystem.getOpenedFileInfo`: Returns (awaited) information about the file stream (Props: `id`, `eof`, `pos`, and `lastRead`)

### Events

- `openedFile`: Occurs per each file read event and whenever the file stream reaches `EOF`.

## Events

- `windowBlur` and `windowFocus` native events. **(Done)**

## Configuration

- Set headers for the HTTP responses (static server) and Websocket handshake. This feature is helpful to enable CORS **(Done)**. 
- Chrome mode **(Done)**


## Developer Environment

- Support frontend-framework-based hot reloading **(Done)**.
